# Weekly Status Updates

### Week 10/31/2015 - 11/6/2015

I have not spent time with Ipopt this week but have instead began reading from
the book _Introduction to Numerical Analysis_ by Stoer and Bulirsch. I am
looking into numerical integrations techniques which is the content of Chapter
3. I found that the first integration technique discussed (Newton-Cotes
formulas) refered back to lagrange interpolation which is the first topic in
chapter 2 and so I backtracked and read through this section. I then coded up a
function in Python that uses the lagrange interpolation and tested it on the
normal bell curve function. (The normal distribution/bell curve is used as the
example function for the other coded examples as I learn numerical integration
due to it being a more complex function than a simple polynomial but still
having very widely known integral values for standard deviations.) After I
coded up the interpolation function I returned to Chapter 3 where I re-read and
took hand written notes. I finished the week by coding Sampson's Rule for
integration in Python and doing a quick reading over the sections in chapter 3
that deal with error estimates. I have not taken any electronic notes over
these sections.

> #### Future Directions

> - I will keep progressing through Chapter 3 of _Introduction to Numerical
    Analysis_

> #### Articles/Books Mentioned in Status Update

> - <a href="http://it-feel.com/e-Library/Mathematics/Analysis/Introduction%20to%20Numerical%20Analysis%202%20ed%20-%20J.Stoer,R.Bulirsch.pdf"
    target="_blank">Introduction to Numerical Analysis</a>
    (J. Stoer and R. Bulirsch)

### Week 10/24/2015 - 10/30/2015

This week was spent finishing the C tutorial series that I had found on youtube
(<a
href="https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL6gx4Cwl9DGAKIXv8Yr6nhGJ9Vlcjyymq"
target="_blank">link</a>).
After finishing the tutorial series I began looking at the Ipopt example for C
programming. Still having a bit of trouble figuring out how to get the ipopt
library to link to the example code. I also attempted getting Ipopt installed
on my Mac laptop to uncertain success.

> #### Future Directions

> - My plan is to continue trying to get the Ipopt example to work on my
    computer

### Week 10/10/2015 - 10/16/2015

During this week I continued watching tutorials on programming in C. I also
continued doing some practice with programming in C alongside the tutorials. In
additiona I took some time to look at the differences between C and C++. Lastly
I spent some time this week to catch up on writing weekly status reports.

> #### Future Directions

> - I will make an attempt to finish watching the C programming tutorials

### Week 10/3/2015 - 10/9/2015

This week I have had another change in direction of research. My project is now
looking to be implementiing the lab's GPOPS II software in a compilable
language such as C or C++ for portability and cost reasons. Due to this shift I
have started watching tutorials over programming in C. I also invested time
into getting IPOPT on my computer. IPOPT is a nonlinear programming problem
solver and will eventually be needed for the project. Lastly I have set up a
git repo to contain my graduate work and have started practicing programming in
C.

> #### Future Directions

> - I will continue expanding my knowledge of C programming

### Week 9/26/2015 - 10/2/2015

This week started off by finishing the notes I was taking on chapter 4 section
1 of _Nonlinear Programming: Theory and Algorithms_. I have begun taking notes
over the next section which starts to introduce the optimalitiy conditions of
constrained problems. Most of my note taking time in this section so far is
translating the math notation into words so that I can understand what it is
that they are presenting. I have yet to finish this section and looking at the
size of this section it will take a lot of time to complete.

> #### Future Directions

> - I plan to continue reading and taking notes over chapter 4 of _Nonlinear
    Programming: Theory and Applications_

> #### Articles/Books Mentioned in Status Update

> - <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Nonlinear-Programming-Algorithms-Mokhtar-Bazaraa/dp/0471486000"
    target="_blank">Nonlinear Programming: Theory and Algorithms Book</a>
    (Mokhtar S. Bazaraa, Hanif D. Sherali and C.M. Shetty)

> #### Notes Mentioned in Status Update

> - [Nonlinear Programming: Theory and
     Algorithms](./nonlinear_programming_theory_and_algorithms/nonlinear_programming_theory_and_algo_main.html)
     (Mokhtar S.  Bazaraa, Hanif D, Sherali and C. M. Shetty)

### Week 9/19/2015 - 9/25/2015

This week I started off continuing notes in chapter 2 section 3 but I then
jumped to chapter 4 which covers optimality conditions at the recommendation of
Dr. Rao. I have read chapter 4 section 1 which deals with optimality conditions
of unconstrained problems. I have spent the rest of the time this week going
back through chapter 4 section 1 taking notes and trying to improve my
understanding of its content. One problem that I have been encountering is that
the chapter keeps refering back to chapter 3 theorems and material that I have
not yet learned, however, I am making progress on understanding the optimality
conditions and should be able to move forward to the next section soon.

> #### Future Directions

> - I plan to continue reading and taking notes over chapter 4 of _Nonlinear
    Programming: Theory and Applications_

> #### Articles/Books Mentioned in Status Update

> - <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Nonlinear-Programming-Algorithms-Mokhtar-Bazaraa/dp/0471486000"
    target="_blank">Nonlinear Programming: Theory and Algorithms Book</a>
    (Mokhtar S. Bazaraa, Hanif D. Sherali and C.M. Shetty)

> #### Notes Mentioned in Status Update

> - [Nonlinear Programming: Theory and
     Algorithms](./nonlinear_programming_theory_and_algorithms/nonlinear_programming_theory_and_algo_main.html)
     (Mokhtar S.  Bazaraa, Hanif D, Sherali and C. M. Shetty)

### Week 9/12/2015 - 9/18/2015

This week I continued making progress through the book _Nonlinear Programming:
Theory and Algorithms_ by Bazaraa. I was able to finish taking notes over
chapter 2 section 1 which covered convex sets and convex hulls. I have also
completely read and taken notes over chapter 2 section 2. This section had a
multitude of set definitions in it including neighborhood of a point, set
closure, interior of a set, set boundaries and compact sets. I have also spent
some time reading the mathematical review of sets and sequences presented in
appendix A.3 of the book in order to further my understanding of chapter 2
section 2. I have read chapter 2 section 3 and am currently in the process of
taking notes over that section, however, I have had to spend more time in the
mathematical review in the appendix in order to aid in comprehension of the
chapter 2 section 3 material.

> #### Future Directions

> - I plan to continue reading and taking notes over _Nonlinear Programming:
    Theory and Applications_

> #### Articles/Books Mentioned in Status Update

> - <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Nonlinear-Programming-Algorithms-Mokhtar-Bazaraa/dp/0471486000"
    target="_blank">Nonlinear Programming: Theory and Algorithms Book</a>
    (Mokhtar S. Bazaraa, Hanif D. Sherali and C.M. Shetty)

> #### Notes Mentioned in Status Update

> - [Nonlinear Programming: Theory and
     Algorithms](./nonlinear_programming_theory_and_algorithms/nonlinear_programming_theory_and_algo_main.html)
     (Mokhtar S.  Bazaraa, Hanif D, Sherali and C. M. Shetty)

### Week 9/5/2015 - 9/11/2015

This week time was spent exclusively working with the book _Nonlinear
Programming: Theory and Algorithms_ by Bazaraa. Over the course of the week I
have completely read chapter 1 of this book which deals with the format of
nonlinear programming problems and have taken notes over that chapter.  I have
also read through chapter 2 section 1 which covers convex sets and convex hulls
and am currently taking notes over this section.

> #### Future Directions

> - I plan to continue reading and taking notes over  _Nonlinear Programming:
    Theory and Applications_

> #### Articles/Books Mentioned in Status Update

> - <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Nonlinear-Programming-Algorithms-Mokhtar-Bazaraa/dp/0471486000"
    target="_blank">Nonlinear Programming: Theory and Algorithms Book</a>
    (Mokhtar S. Bazaraa, Hanif D. Sherali and C.M. Shetty)

> #### Notes Mentioned in Status Update

> - [Nonlinear Programming: Theory and
     Algorithms](./nonlinear_programming_theory_and_algorithms/nonlinear_programming_theory_and_algo_main.html)
     (Mokhtar S.  Bazaraa, Hanif D, Sherali and C. M. Shetty)

### Week 8/29/2015 - 9/4/2015

This week I started off reading the article _An Introduction to Automatic
Differentiation_. After I finished reading the article I went back and started
to take notes over the details of the article in order to gain a better
understanding. During this note taking I differentiated a fucntion I made up
using the automatic differentiation method described in the article. Also while
taking notes I added information on Hessian matrices to my general notes page.
About part way through the week Dr. Rao mentioned that I could maybe do a
project involving writing a new non-linear programming problem solver and so I
did a bit of research on NLP solvers. While serching for information I found
more comparisons of current NLP solvers than research articles involving what a
NLP solver is and how they are improved. Dr. Rao then lent me 3 text books to
start reading: _Nonlinear Programming: Theory and Algorithms_ by Bazaraa,
_Practical Methods of Optimization_ by Fletcher and _Nonlinear Programming_ by
Bertsekas. I have begun reading and taking notes over _Nonlinear Programming:
Theory and Algorithms_ and plan to continue doing so for the forseeable future.

> #### Future Directions

> - I plan to read and take notes over the three textbooks given to me over
    nonlinear programming which I believe will take a significant amount of
    time

> #### Articles/Books Mentioned in Status Update

> - <a href="http://www.eng.mu.edu/corlissg/Pubs/Papers/1996d.ps.gz"
    target="_blank">An Introduction to Automatic Differentiation Download</a>
    (Louis B. Rall and George F. Corliss)
> - <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Nonlinear-Programming-Algorithms-Mokhtar-Bazaraa/dp/0471486000"
    target="_blank">Nonlinear Programming: Theory and Algorithms</a>
    (Mokhtar S. Bazaraa, Hanif D. Sherali and C.M. Shetty)
> - <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Practical-Methods-Optimization-R-Fletcher/dp/0471494631"
    target="_blank">Practical Methods of Optimization</a>
    (R. Fletcher)
> - <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Nonlinear-Programming-Dimitri-P-Bertsekas/dp/1886529000"
    target="_blank">Nonlinear Programming</a>
    (Dimitri P. Bertsekas)


### Week 8/21/2015 - 8/28/2015

This week I started by taking general optimal control notes from the article
_Faster, Higher and Greener_ to better understand controls terminology. I also
took some general notes over the control Hamiltonian and Calculus of
Variations. For the calculus of variations notes I found an article,
_Introduction to the Calculus of Variations_, of which I read a portion. A lot
of the articles I was finding about the calculus of variations spent more time
with examples of its usage rather than defining the concept itself. I also
began taking some notes on the article _An Efficient Overloaded Method for
Computing Derivatives of Mathematical Functions in MATLAB_ to get a base of
knowledge on computational derivatives. To further gain information on
automatic derivatives I found the site <a href="http://www.autodiff.org/"
target="_blank">www.autodiff.org</a> that is a central hub for automatic
differentiation information. The site contains lists of articles and books that
have dealt with the topic of automatic differentiation along with links to
different tools that use automatic differentiation in different programming
languages. From this web site I have found the article _An Introduction to
Automatic Differentiation_ from which I plan to read and take notes over.

> #### Future Directions

> - I plan to finish reading and taking notes over _An Introduction to
    Automatic Differentiation_
> - I will then continue learning about automatic differentiation, using the
    site <a href="http://www.autodiff.org/"
    target="_blank">www.autodiff.org</a> as a guide

> #### Articles Mentioned in Status Update

> - <a href="http://vdol.mae.ufl.edu/JournalPublications/IEEE-CSM-14-0038.pdf"
    target="_blank">Faster, Higher and Greener</a>
    (David J.N. Limebeer and Anil Rao)
> - <a href="http://www.math.umn.edu/~olver/ln_/cv.pdf"
     target="_blank">Introduction to the Calculus of Variations</a>
    (Peter J. Oliver)
> - <a href="http://vdol.mae.ufl.edu/JournalPublications/TOMS-2011-0055.pdf"
    target="_blank">An Efficient Overloaded Method for Computing Derivative of
    Mathematical Functions in MATLAB</a>
    (Michael A. Patterson, Matthew Weinstein and Anil Rao)
> - <a href="http://www.eng.mu.edu/corlissg/Pubs/Papers/1996d.ps.gz"
    target="_blank">An Introduction to Automatic Differentiation Download</a>
    (Louis B. Rall and George F. Corliss)
