---
layout: posts
title: GSoC Week 1
commentIssueId: 3
---

The first week of the Google Summer of Code is now coming to an end and I feel
like I've hit the ground running and made a great head start. Most of the week
revolved around work with creating a way to benchmark `KanesMethod` and
`LagrangesMethod` classes so that activities aimed at enchancing the speed
performance of these classes can be tracked. I also worked on moving some code
from the pydy repository to the sympy repository and made my first attempt at
reviewing a pull request. Lastly I continued researching Featherstones Method
of equation of motion generation and started digging into the structure of
`KanesMethod` and `LagrangesMethod` as I work towards making a base equations
of motion class.

The week started off by finishing the tkinter GUI and benchmarking code that I
had started making from scratch during the community bonding period. I added
the ability to filter the graphed results by test, python version and platform.
This code was submitted to the SymPy repository in [PR
#11154](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11154). This PR has since been
closed as Jason Moore pointed out that SymPy already has a benchmarking
repository that is able to do basically what I was achieving with my code and a
better solution would be to simply move my tests there. First I had to learn
the airspeed velocity (ASV) package which is what the benchmarking repository
uses to run it's tests. After reading through the documentation of ASV's
homepage I altered my `KanesMethod` and `LagrangesMethod` tests to fit ASV's
formatting. This code was submitted to the sympy_benchmarks repository in [PR
#27](https://github.com/sympy/sympy_benchmarks/pull/27). This code has since
been merged though during the submission process Jason brought up that it would
be a good idea to broaden the scope of testing for the equations of motion
generators and mentioned a few example scripts to look through. My summary of
reviewing those scripts can be found on the PR but basically some of the
examples did not use additional methods but simply provided different inputs
for testing equations of motion formation which is still useful. 

Among the scripts to review was pydy.models.py which Jason pointed out would be
useful if added to the SymPy repository as it would give additional code to
benchmark and test. Some tasks that would need to be completed to achieve this
migration were to remove all dependence of the code on pydy and come up with
some test code which I worked on the back half of this week. Also I changed the
location of the theta coordinate of models.py's second function at Jason's
request. The submission of this code to the SymPy repository is in [PR
#11168](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11168) which at the time of this
writing is awaiting the completion of the travis ci tests.

The last thing I did related to my project this week was continue to learn the
math behind Roy Featherstone's equations of motion algorithm. I finished
reading through his short course on spatial vector algebra slides and their
accompaning notes. Also I contined reading through [A Beginners Guide to 6-D
Vectors (Part
2)](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5663690). Lastly I
began taking notes on `KanesMethod` and `LagrangesMethod`'s apis as I begin
working towards creating an equations of motion generation base class.

I also made my first attempt at doing a PR review this week on [PR
#10650](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/10650). This PR had very little
code to look over and I made some suggestions on basic syntax choices. After he
fixed the suggestions, however, I pinged members who deal with that code as I
am not confident in my ability to assess whether the code is ok for merging or
if the fix is necessary.


### Future Directions

> Next week my plan is to jump more into figuring out the internals of the
> `KanesMethod` and `LagrangesMethod` classes which will most likely involve
> dynamics topics I am less familiar with. In addition I will keep making
> progress on learning Featherstone's method of equations of motion generation.
> Thus it seems that next week will be focused more on theoretical learning and
> less on coding than this week was.

### PR's and Issues Referenced in Post

> - (Closed) Mechanics Benchmarking [PR
    #11154](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11154) 
> - (Merged) Added a test for KanesMethod and LagrangesMethod [PR
    #27](https://github.com/sympy/sympy_benchmarks/pull/27)
> - (Open) Fix matrix rank with complicated elements [PR
    #10650](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/10650)
> - (Open) Pydy models migration [PR
    #11168](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11168)

### Articles/Books Referenced in Post

> - [A Beginners Guide to 6-D Vectors (Part
     2)](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5663690)
> - [A Short Course On Spatial Vector Algebra
    Slides](http://royfeatherstone.org/spatial/slidesX4.pdf)
> - [A Short Course On Spatial Vector Algebra Slide
    Notes](http://royfeatherstone.org/spatial/notes.pdf)
