---
layout: posts
title: GSoC Week 14
commentIssueId: 14
---

This is the final week of GSoC! I have the write up of the work done on a
different [page](../../../GSoC-Final-Submission.html). 

This project has been a wonderful learning experience and I have met many
wonderful people over the course of this summer. Before the summer began I had
never written any test code. Now at the conclusion of the summer I have written
benchmark tests and I try to make sure the code I write has complete unit
coverage. I feel that this is one of my biggest areas of improvement over the
past 3 months. I have also learned a considerable amount about the combination
of programming and dynamics. Prior to GSoC my experience with dynamics
consisted solely of finding the equations of motion by hand. With my time in
GSoC I have been exposed to finding the equations of motion programatically and
using the results with an ode integrator. I have also obtained a more in depth
knowledge of different algorithms for creating the equations of motion.

Another thing that I have enjoyed in this experience is seeing how a large
programming project works. I feel that this will make me more employable in the
future as well as allow me to help any other new open source community get up
and running. 

Lastly, one of the big highlights of my summer was my trip to Austin, TX for
Scipy 2016. Being a GSoC student I not only got to go to my first professional
conference but I was able to help give one of the tutorials. Also I was able to
meet many of the other people who work on sympy. This went a long way in making
my contributions to sympy from being just contributions to some organization to
working on a project with other people. It was also neat to meet the developers
of other open source projects. Like my comment about sympy, I now see those
projects less as being "project name" and more as the people actually working
on them.

I have enjoyed my GSoC experience and if I were eligible I would not hesitate
to apply again. I would like to thank those who chose me and made this summer
of learning and experiences possible.
