---
layout: posts
title: GSoC Week 5
commentIssueId: 7
---

Well I started this week off by getting sick and as such productivity took a
little bit of a hit. The majority of this week was spent reading Featherstone's
text book. The example documentation showcasing the base class API still hasn't
been reviewed and so that part of the project will just have to be set aside
until later. Overall the project will not suffer, however, because of my
progress in learning Featherstone's method. 

I've done a couple of other things this week as well. In a discussion with
Jason it was determined that the `LagrangesMethod` class must have access to
the dynamic system's bodies through the Lagrangian input. Upon research the
Lagrangain turned out to not be an object instance but rather a function that
simply returned the Lagrangian for input bodies. This meant that
`LagrangesMethod` did not in fact have access to the dynamic system's bodies.
Due to this I decided that an easy way to get `LagrangesMethod` to have body
information would be to add an optional keyword argument for it. This was
`LagrangesMethod` can have a more similar API to `KanesMethod`. This change can
be found in [PR #11263](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11263).

This week I reviewed [PR #10856](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/10856)
which claimed to fix [Issue
#10855](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/issues/10855). Upon review it seemed
that the "fix" was to just not run tests that were failing. When researched it
looks like a whole module has not been updated for Python 3.X and is failing
its relative imports. When run in Python 2.X it's still not working either but
rather is throwing up many `KeyError` flags. I think this has not been caught
sooner due to the module being a component directly dealing with another
project (pyglet) thus the tests are not run by TravisCI.

Lastly there were some test errors in the example documentation for the base
class on PyDy. I was not too worried about these because the PR is not
currently awaiting merging and is simply a discussion PR. The failing tests,
however, were not related to the changes in the PR and so a PyDy member
submitted a PR that fixed the tests and asked me to review it. After I looked
it over and determined that the fix addressed the issue correctly he merged the
PR.

### Future Directions

Next week I plan to continue forward with reading Featherstone's book and, if
possible, begin implementing one of the methods outlined in the book. Also I
plan on beginning work on mirroring Jason's overhaul of `KanesMethod` on
`LagrangesMethod`.

### PR's and Issues

> - (Open) Added support for a bodies attribute to LagrangesMethod [PR
    #11263](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11263)
> - (Open) Added a depencency on older version of ipywidgets [PR
    #100](https://github.com/pydy/pydy-tutorial-human-standing/pull/100)
> - (Open) Blacklisted pygletplot from doctests when pyglet is installed [PR
    #10856](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/10856)
> - (Open) sympy.doctest("plotting") fails in python 3.5 [Issue
    #10855](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/issues/10855)
> - (Merged) Fix multiarray import error on appveyor [PR
    #354](https://github.com/pydy/pydy/pull/354)
