---
layout: posts
title: GSoC Week 13
commentIssueId: 13
---

This week I spent a lot of time working on FeatherstonesMethod and its
component parts. I started off by moving a bunch of spatial vector functions
from another PR I have to the featherstone PR and used some of those functions
to calculate the spatial inertia of Body objects. The next thing I worked on
was completely rewriting the internals of the joint code. The joints now
consist of 4 reference frames and points (one set at each of the bodys mass
centers and one set per body at the joint location).

After this I ran some basic code that used these new features and kept making
changes until the code was able to run without producing errors. I used this
same method of work with FeatherstonesMethod and now it too is able to run
without producing errors. Now that the code runs it was time to make sure that
the output is correct which is a lot more involved than the previous step of
work. To begin I solved for the spatial inertia by hand and used this
calculation to create test code for Body.spatial_inertia. As expected the code
initially was completely incorrect but it now passes the test. I have since
been working on the tests for the joint code. Since this code is completely new
to the sympy repository it takes a lot more planning than the body test did.
Also I need to solve the kinematics by hand for the joints so that I have a
base for the test code. This is where I am currently located in the process.

Also this week I addressed review comments on SymbolicSystem and have moved
that PR closer to being able to merge. One of the current hang ups is trying to
force Sphinx to autodocument the \_\_init\_\_ method. I think the best solution
currently is to move the relevant code back to the main docstring for the class
and not worry about trying to document the \_\_init\_\_ method.

While working on rewriting the joint code I came across a bug in frame.py and
have created a docstring with a fix to this along with a test to make sure the
fix works.

Lastly I reviewed a PR that adds a docstring to a method that did not yet have
a docstring. The PR had some information in it that was incorrect and after
some research I was able to make some suggestions for its implementation.

### Future Directions

Next week is the last full week of GSoC and my main priority is getting the
final evaluation information correctly finished so that the work can be
processed correctly. My next goal is to make sure SymbolicSystem gets merged
into SymPy. This is not entirely in my hands, however, as I will be having to
wait for feedback and so while waiting I will be pulling off different parts of
FeatherstonesMethod for separate PR's at the recomendation of my advisor. These
separate PR's I hope to possibly include in my final evaluation.

### PR's and Issues

> - (Open) [WIP] Added system.py to physics/mechanics [PR
    #11431](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11431)
> - (Open) [WIP] FeatherstonesMethod [PR
    #11415](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11415)
> - (Open) Added docstring to jordan_cell method [PR
>   #10356](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/10356)
