---
layout: posts
title: GSoC Week 11
commentIssueId: 11
---

Somehow I think I was off by a week. I think last week's blog post covers week
9 and 10 and this week's covers week 11. This week I created a full draft for
all components of the `SymbolicSystem` class that will take the place of a
equations of motion generator "base class" that was discussed in my project
proposal. I began by creating all of the docstrings for the class followed by
the test code. With the documentation and test code written it was a simple
matter to finish off the code for the class itself. Lastly I added
documentation to two places in sympy, one place contains the autogenerated
documentation from the docstrings and the other place I adapted an example from
pydy to show how to use the new class.

After working on `SymbolicSystem` I decided to try to finish off an old PR of
mine regarding the init_printing code that Jason and I had discussed at Scipy.
The idea was to build separate dictionaries to pass to the different printers
in ipython based on the parameters that the specific printers take. The idea
was to find this information using inspect.getargs(). The problem arose when
trying to implement this solution because each separate printer has an expr
argument and a \*\*settings argument and the different possible paramters are
processed internally by the printer. This means that there would not be an
elegant way to build dictionaries for each printer.

The next thing I worked on this week was looking into Jain's version of the
order(N) method as suggested last week. When I started looking over his book,
however, I found that uses a rather different set of notion than Featherstone
and had some additional terms. I have decided to move forward with
Featherstone's method due to the summer coming to an end and I am already
familiar with his version of the method. To that end I reread the first part of
chapter 7 in Featherstone's book where he discusses the articulated body
method.

I reviewed two PR's this week. This work was rather quick as they were simply
documentation additions. I verified the method docstrings matched what the
mehtod actually does and that the modual docstring included the different
functions present in the file. Determining that they were correct I gave the +1
to merge and they have both since been merged.


### Future Directions

The plan for next week is to focus entirely on the order(N) articulated body
method of forming the equations of motion. I plan on writing the three passes
for the method as if I have all of the information and methods I need in order
to make it work. I expect this to be the best way to determine what additional
code I will need in addition to finding my weak points in how well I understand
the method. Once I have a skeleton of the of how the algorithm is supposed to
work I will stop working directly on the algorithm itself and start working on
the peripheral code such as the joints and body code or spatial vector
processing methods.

### PR's and Issues

> - (Open) [WIP] Added system.py to physics/mechanics [PR
    #11431](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11431)
> - (Merged) Added docstrings to delta and mid property methods [PR
    #11432](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11432)
> - (Merged) Added top-level docstring for singularities.py [PR
    #11440](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11440)
