---
layout: posts
title: GSoC Week 3
commentIssueId: 6
---

I started off this week writing the example code for a pendulum defined by x
and y coordinates instead of an angle, theta. This was to show how the
`eombase.EOM` class would handle a differential algebraic system. I also
altered the simple pendulum example I made early on in the project to show how
it would look as an `eombase.EOM` example. Of the examples I have made for the
base class this one stands out as currently being the only one making use of
the equations of motion generators (the other two have the equations of motion
entered by hand). While addressing comments on the PR, it was mentioned that a
more traditional documentation approach would allow greater visibility of the
desired results of the code as the output could be explicitly shown. I agreed
and moved all three examples to a single .rst document in PyDy and changed the
code to represent the documentation format over example code format. At this
point I made a list of all of the attributes and methods I though the base
class should represent and made sure they were represented in the example
documentation. In addition I included multiple ways I thought error messages
should be brought up for incorrect uses of the base class. This information is
currently awaiting review.

In addition to the work on the base class I had to fix the kane benchmark I
made early on in the project. At some point in the last few months the input
order for `kane.kanes_equations()` was flipped and this caused the benchmark to
not be able to run on pervious versions of Sympy. My fix was to use a
try/except clause to catch the error produced by the older versions of Sympy
and alter the input order based on whether or not the error was produced. This
code sits at [PR #29](https://github.com/sympy/sympy_benchmarks/pull/29) and it
too is awaiting review/approval.

While I have been waiting for review of the base class PR, I have begun reading
through Roy Featherstone's book, "Rigid Body Dynamics Algorithms". I have spent
time going through Jason's overhaul of `KanesMethod` as well and trying to
provide as much useful feedback as I can.

Lastly I reviewed [PR
#11209](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11183#issuecomment-225102295) this
week. The PR correctly alters code that tests for the presence of a key in a
dictionary. It also altered the indentation of the code that immediately
followed. I eventually came to the conclusion that this was a correct
alteration because the variable `eq_no` is set in the dictionary key test and
is used in the code that follows the test. I commented that the PR looks good
to me and another member of SymPy merged it. This makes me slightly worried
that too much value may be attached to my opinion as I still feel like a
beginner.

### Future Directions

I will continue reading through Featherstone's book until I recieve feedback on
the proposed base class API at which time I will address the reviewer's
comments and hopefully begin work on the base class itself.

### PR's and Issues

> - (Open) Improved the explanation of the 5 equations in the Kane's Method
    docs [PR #11183](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11183)
> - (Open) Created a basis on which to discuss EOM class [PR
    #353](https://github.com/pydy/pydy/pull/353)
> - (Open) Minor fix in KanesMethod's docstring [PR
    #11186](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11186)
> - (Open) Fixed kane benchmark for different input order [PR
    #29](https://github.com/sympy/sympy_benchmarks/pull/29)
> - (Merged) Fix issue #8193 [PR
    #11209](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11209)
