---
layout: posts
title: GSoC Week 2
commentIssueId: 4
---

This week involved more research and learning than coding and as such the
results are less visible. I made some changes to the test code for models.py
under mechanics, I spend time looking through the structure and workings of
`KanesMethod` and `LagrangesMethod`, and created a
[PR](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11182) to hold the EOM class
development discussion.

The tests for test_models.py were timing out and so it was suggested that I
change the tests from using rhs() to testing mass matrices and force vectors. I
put these changes together and on my machine this halved the run time of the
tests. After this change was added to [PR
#11168](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11168) and the tests passed the
models.py and its test code files were merged.

To learn more about how `KanesMethod` and `LagrangesMethod` work I began by
reading through much of the documentation for the mechanics module. Included
were the pages on the two methods themselves, information on how linearization
is performed in the code and three different examples in which the two methods
are used to solve dynamics problems. As I read through the documents I
occassionally found places that could use some minor adjustments and I presented
these changes in [PR #11117](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11117) which
has since been merged.

In addition to reading the documentation for information, I went through the
code for each method themselves. I made note of all of the attributes,
properties and methods that each of the classes contained and compared these
between the classes. In order to compare the differences in how information was
stored in each of the classes I needed to return to the Kane's method and
Lagrange's method documentation pages. At this point Jason was able to clarify
much of my confusion regarding the different equations that the pages
contained. Jason decided this clarification would be useful to add to the pages
themselves and introduced [PR
#11183](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11183). I reviewed this PR for him
though my contribution was more along the lines of pointing out places that
might need clarification and changes that might improve the flow of the page
rather than of the content itself.

Last major line of work this week was beginning the equations of motion class
itself. It was suggested by Jason that it might be useful to have the *Method
classes return a class containing the equations of motion information. I have
decided that for the moment this would be a better pursuit than creating a
parent class from which the *Methods would inherit. The *Methods classes tend to
be different in their approach to forming the equations of motion and thus I do
now currently believe that a parent class could be overly useful for multiple
*Methods. What new methods could benefit from, however, is a unified output
format as the rest of the code could be written to accept the new output rather
than specific Method classes. This would I feel would promote the addition of
new Methods more than a inherited base class would. Along this line I have
created a branch that holds the code for the new equations of motion class and
its test code. Currently the work is to transfer the pseudo-code I have into
real code.

I have finished reading A Beginners Guide to 6-D Vectors (Part 2) but have made
no other progress towards Featherstone's method this week other than locating a
copy of his book.

### Future Directions

Next week I plan to continue working on filling out the equation of motion
class along with its test code. The next step would be to integrate this into
`KanesMethod` and `LagrangesMethod` to see what tests fail and where additional
work would be needed. Also I plan to look into Featherstone's book and the
python implementation of spatial vector algebra to see what I might need to
work on in order to implement his method in SymPy.

### PR's and Issues Referenced in Post

> - (Merged) Pydy models migration [PR
    #11168](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11168)
> - (Merged) Physics documentation [PR
    #11117](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11117)
> - (Open) Improved the explanation of the 5 equations in the Kane's Method
    docs [PR #11183](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11183)
> - (Open) [WIP] EOMBase class development [PR
    #11182](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11182)


### Articles/Books Referenced in Post

> - [A Beginners Guide to 6-D Vectors (Part
     2)](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5663690)
