---
layout: posts
title: GSoC Week 6
commentIssueId: 8
---

The main theme of this week is Featherstone's method. I have finished reading
all of the text book that I feel I need to in order to finish my project. After
reading I realize that I have been improper about addressing my project.
Instead of saying I am introducing Featherstone's method to SymPy, it would be
more accurate to say that I am introducing one of Featherstone's methods. The
book introduced two equations of motion generation methods for open loop
kinematic trees and one method for a closed loop kinematic tree (I stopped
reading after chapter 8 and so there may have been even more methods). For my
project I have decided to focus on the articulated body method of equation of
motion generation for kinematic trees. This method is presented as being more
efficient than the composite body method and the closed loop method seems
rather complicated.

With this in mind I began digging deeper into the articulated body method and
better learning how it works. With this mindset I went over the three passes
that the method uses and looked for places where code would be needed that
isn't specifically part of the method. I compiled a list of these functions and
have written docstrings and presented them in [PR
#11331](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11331). The support code for the
method includes operations for spatial (6D) vectors and a function and library
for extracing relevant joint information.

This week I reviewed [PR #11333](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11333).
The pull request adds docstrings to method that did not have them previously
which is a big plus but the docstrings that were added were minimal and vague.
I asked that the contributer add more information to the docstrings and he said
he will get to it.

### Future Directions

Next week I plan on furthering my work on the articulated body method. I hope
to have the support functions completely written up and to begin writing the
equation of motion generator itself. These plans may be set aside, however, as
my most active mentor will be coming back from traveling next week and so work
may resume on the base class.

### PR's and Issues

> - (Open) Added docstrings to ast.py [PR
    #11333](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11333)
> - (Open) [WIP] Featherstones EOM support [PR
    #11331](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11331)
